Chapters 1 & 2 Revisions 05-02-2025 (#5113)
dfinity/motoko: doc/md/fundamentals/2-types/11-stable-types.md

# Stable types

Recall that [shared types](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/fundamentals/types/shared-types) can be transmitted to other actors and canisters as arguments and or be the result of shared functions.

> **Stable types** include all shared types and are the types of values that can be stored in Motoko's stable variables. Storing a value in a stable variable ensures the value can be preserved across upgrades of the actor, allowing an application to preserve state without requiring a file system or database. The ability to safely and easily preserve data across upgrades is one the distinguishing features of Motoko that separates it from other mainstream languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Stable types** include all shared types and are the types of values that can be stored in the stable variables of a Motoko actor. 
Storing a value in a stable variable ensures the value can be preserved across upgrades of the actor, allowing an application to preserve state without requiring a file system or database. The ability to safely and easily preserve data across upgrades is one of the distinguishing features of Motoko that separates it from other mainstream languages.

In an actor declared without the `persistent` keyword, all private declarations are considered transient unless declared `stable`.
In a `persistent` actor, all private fields (apart from function declarations) are considered stable unless explicitly declared `transient`.  The type of any stable variable must be a stable type, that is, belong to the set of stable types. Transient variables are not restricted in this way and can have any form of type, including non-stable types. 

You can think of the set of stable types as the types of values that can be transferred from an actor to its future upgrades. Type that can't be transferred are those whose values depend on the code of the current actor, such as functions or, more generally, objects containing functions as methods.
```

> 

Reviewer: In the table below, may point out that (non-shared) function and futures (async(*) T) are neither shared nor stable.

Reviewer: In the table, Also, the T in [T], [var T], ?T must itself be stable or shared. Maybe you can add a footnote.

Eg.

| Immutable arrays (`[T]`)     | Yes* | Yes** |

* provided T stable
** provided T shared.

Reviewer: Maybe add a line to the table for regions (Yes | No)
